hey guys so this is my very first paint
tool Sai tutorial it's it actually is a
tutorial right well that's more like
it's tips on things I've picked up over
the years of using it and just general
knowledge please keep in mind that
anything I'm suggesting is purely
suggestion and you do not any way shape
or form have to follow it it is not the
one rule it is just things I picked up
and tips i'm sharing with you so i have
paint tool sai open so i'm gonna go to
New um doesn't matter which name your
canvas so I like to make my wits and
height like this pixels you want to get
pretty high because with the sizes if
you have it smaller you can't get as
many details it's just it's a lot easier
to do it this way and then you want your
resolution high as well pixels per
pixels per inch is is 600 is really good
so okay here we are voila so what I've
decided to do here is we get started
inside I want to show you some of the
artwork I've done with size so you kind
of get an idea of what you can actually
do with side with the other side like
this is an example of something I've
done inside see what else this is
another example of something I've done
inside so you'll do one more yeah I have
a lot of copies this one is one of my
favorites it is also done a little bit
in photoshop and I can kind of explain
that towards the end of the tutorial on
how I kind of got in the background but
so you have your new canvas now what
well that's kind of a loaded question
it's um I have a lot of different
markers and
different brushes I've used a lot of my
settings are actually from there not
mine there are settings I've used from
deviantart I'm on deviantart her
username is darling beyond that and she
has amazing russian supplements their
custom I've used most of my brushes from
her so if you ever get a chance go check
out her page and i'll give you a link in
the video so you can check out her
beautiful artwork for one thing and all
the really cool brushes she goes as i
said i use them too so i'm giving her a
shout out whoever you are thank you
because your brushes are amazing that
being said let's get started um i'm
obviously i'm not going to do complete
drawing i'm just going to show you tips
and tricks I've learned over time as I
said usually when i start i used pen
tool and these settings are here uh you
know i'm not going to go into ober
detail about it but you can see like
where all the settings are and
everything that's my pen i usually
picked like a blue color oh the other
thing i highly highly highly recommend
is a tablet i'm sure there are plenty of
people who use a mouse for this but it's
very very difficult and i have yet to
master it so if you don't have a tablet
this tutorial it it'll work once you
have one so yes you'll definitely want a
tablet you can get a really good tablet
for fifty to a hundred dollars will calm
is probably like one of the best ones I
myself use the will calm bamboo fun it
is well fun and I've had it for a couple
years and it's served me quite well so
if you are wanting to get in a digital
art and using pay to
sigh i highly recommend the tablet i
have my pen tool and I've got my tablet
I use I use the mouse on the tablet like
this is me using the mouse and this is
me using the tablet yeah see there's a
huge difference we guessed one of the
favorite shortcuts in your best friend
if you hit ctrl Z like control etsy
together undo best shortcut ever use it
all the time I'm going to write this
down ctrl Z so huh and lazy i'm just
going to erase this tablet so we have a
pen let's just draw a heart woohoo
hearts are fun to draw okay so there's
my heart it's a basic one so what's next
well me personally this this is again
this is what I do this is not maybe not
what you do this is how I get my
sketches to look for my dogs to look the
way they do you so you go to layer new
line work layer make sure its new line
work layer okay so we have a heart and
do we have layer one which is the one we
do it on the line work layer so you're
going to go back to layer 102 your
opacity and you're going to lower it to
about fifty percent the linework layer
is above your sketch layer so you're
going to zoom in you're going to go to
your pen tool now this is really
important you sort says stabilizer go in
and you go all the way down s7 this is
the stabilizer tools so when you draw
it'll automatically stabilize your lines
so they look very clean and crisp and
you're not all over the place s7 is the
highest one so you want to make sure
it's on the high swan I
you should i use black because black is
cool doesn't matter what size users 2 or
3 i'm going to go in it draw over it so
where you can really just zoom in and go
we and away we go and where are we we go
to actually do real line art it can take
a while usually when I draw it takes
anywhere from an hour to eight hours to
draw a complete dry now very important
when you're done your line art make sure
you go in and fix all those holes this
is where you can really zoom in and
really get some of these holes very
important so just go in and just make
sure that their lines are neat and
there's no holes perfect okay so here's
your heart now by now I generally I save
so file save as you want to make sure
it's sigh we're going to call it heart
all right